# About remote nodes
Remote nodes are useful if you are not able/don't want to download the whole blockchain, but be advised that malicious remote nodes could compromise some privacy. They may track your IP address, track your "restore height" and associated block request data, and send you inaccurate information to learn more about transactions you make. Please make sure to use a node you trust (hopefully your own) and remain aware of these limitations. Users who prioritize privacy should use a full node instead. A number of trusted ArQmA open nodes are at node.supportarqma.com:19994 . Which is maintained by several auto global rollover IPs closest to your locality.

## Bootstrap nodes
A bootstrap node is a remote node to use whilst also syncing the blockchain. This is different than the remote node setting, since it will only use the specified remote node until the blockchain is fully synced locally. It is a reasonable tradeoff for most people who care about privacy but also want the convenience of an automatic fallback option. Be aware that when using remote nodes (including with the bootstrap setting), nodes may track your IP address, track your "restore height" and associated block request data, and send you inaccurate information to learn more about transactions you make. Please make sure to use a node you trust (hopefully your own) and remain aware of these limitations. Keep the Monero full node software operating on your computer even when you are not using the wallet to reduce the amount of leaked data. Use the ArQmA trusted node at node.supportarqma.com:19994 .
